---
title: Papers in Jan 2019
author: Ming Li
date: '2019-02-13'
slug: 
categories:
  - utils
tags:
  - utils
  - Reading Notes
---

To prepare for the onsite interview with XXXX, I read bunches of papers about recommendation system these days. And some of them are really nice, I will keep track of it and add a really briefly comment for that paper, descriptive or detailed. 

1. Breese, J. S., Heckerman, D., & Kadie, C. (1998, July). Empirical analysis of predictive algorithms for collaborative filtering. In Proceedings of the Fourteenth conference on Uncertainty in artificial intelligence (pp. 43-52). Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc..
   * From Microsoft Research. It is an introduction to collaborative filtering, and evaluated the data set we use.

2. Herlocker, J. L., Konstan, J. A., Borchers, A., & Riedl, J. (1999, August). An algorithmic framework for performing collaborative filtering. In Proceedings of the 22nd annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval (pp. 230-237). ACM.
   * Proposes a framework for collaborative filtering. We will implement specific algorithms following this framework.

3. Jeh, G., & Widom, J. (2002, July). SimRank: a measure of structural-context similarity. In Proceedings of the eighth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining (pp. 538-543). ACM.
   * Proposes a specific similarity measure.

4. Schein, A. I., Popescul, A., Ungar, L. H., & Pennock, D. M. (2002, August). Methods and metrics for cold-start recommendations. In Proceedings of the 25th annual international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and development in information retrieval(pp. 253-260). ACM.
   * FYI on cold-start problems.

5. Su, X., & Khoshgoftaar, T. M. (2009). A survey of collaborative filtering techniques. Advances in artificial intelligence, 2009, 4.
   * A review paper of collaborative filtering.

**Notes** those five papers above are the reading materials of Applied Data Science Course reading materials listed by Prof. Zheng.

1. Building industrial-scale Real-World recommender systems. 2012, by Xavier from Netflix
    * It's talked about the concerns for RS except for the RMSE and netflix solution in really really high-level, no so much detail, this two-page paper can give you the intuition

1. Deep Nerual Networks for YouTube recommendations, 2016
    * Nice paper, worthy of reading and taking notes of it, as this is the first paper I read about applying DL to RS.

1. Large scale distributed deep networks
    * remarkable paper.

I will add more as I continues to prepare for the interview and to know more about the state-of-art techs in this field as much as I can.
